hi i'm jay from real street performance
today we're going to talk about doing a
booty check and why it's important on
your horse inducted vehicle on a force
abducted engine boost is power so you
want to make sure that the system is not
leaking air because if it's losing boost
it's going to be losing power depending
on the system and how its set up having
a boost leak is detrimental in a few
different ways
on a turbocharged car if you have a
loose leak the turbocharger will just
speed up to meet the same boost target
most of the time and that's going to
increase back pressure and the workload
on the turbocharger in addition to that
if you have a mass airflow sensor car
it's accounting for a certain amount of
air and if that air doesn't pass through
the entire system and leave the tailpipe
then the fueling is going to be off on a
map sensor based car the blue sticks
will typically make for erratic map
signal which will change injector pulse
width and the timing and make that an
erratic situation which is harder to
tune making for an engine that doesn't
run as well so in order to do this test
you're going to make yourself a tool or
if you can probably purchase this
through a vendor online but the idea is
to cap the inlet of the turbocharger and
fill the system with air and then start
fishing around for air leaks so you can
use a spray bottle full of soapy water
you can use the smoke machine if you
have access to that or just use your
ears if it's quiet so unless you have an
engine that has a tremendous amount of
overlap where both valves are open at
the same time you can just feed air into
the turbocharger and just listen if you
need to use a spray bottle with some
soap in it you can do that and spray
around but generally you can hear the
leaks and go chase them down whether it
be a coupler or a vacuum line or maybe
the inner core
or split but if you just beat air into
the system and then just take a listen
you can generally fish out where they
are
this car has these quick couplers on the
cruise control solenoid with a nylon
line and one of the seals is leaking on
that so that'll be the first thing we
address and this is something you want
to do before tuning hopefully you're
enjoying these little tech tips and
you're getting some information that
helps you with your build tune in next
week for another tech tip you could
subscribe below or like us on Facebook
thanks